4.5 release page (#1138)
godotengine/godot-website: collections/_release_4_5/entry-general-core-duplicate-at-ease-with-expected-results.md

---
type: entry
section: general
subsection: core
rank: 2
importance: 3
anchor: duplicate-at-ease-with-expected-results
title: Duplicate at ease with expected results
blockquote: As deep as you wish
text: |
  For a long time, even though `Resource.duplicate()` has a `deep` parameter, people realized that setting it to `true` doesn’t always perform in a reliable and predictable way. [Notably](https://github.com/godotengine/godot/issues/74918), it does not duplicate subresources stored inside `Array` or `Dictionary` properties.

  The new `Resource.duplicate_deep()` method give users full control [over what gets duplicated or not](https://docs.godotengine.org/en/4.5/classes/class_resource.html#enum-resource-deepduplicatemode).

>   This new feature is the result of an overhaul of the duplication logic for objects, arrays and dictionaries. For developers, we made sure to keep what was working and consistent intact. If you need more details, feel free to consult our new [exhaustive documenation about the duplication specification]().

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  This new feature is the result of an overhaul of the duplication logic for objects, arrays, and dictionaries. For developers, we made sure to keep what was working and consistent intact. If you need more details, feel free to consult our new and exhaustive [documentation about the duplication specification]().
```

text: |
  For a long time, even though [`Resource.duplicate()`](https://docs.godotengine.org/en/4.5/classes/class_resource.html#class-resource-method-duplicate) has a `deep` parameter, people realized that setting it to `true` doesn’t always perform in a reliable and predictable way. [Notably](https://github.com/godotengine/godot/issues/74918), it does not duplicate subresources stored inside `Array` or `Dictionary` properties. The same thing happens with [`Array.duplicate()`](https://docs.godotengine.org/en/4.5/classes/class_array.html#class-array-method-duplicate) and [`Dictionary.duplicate()`](https://docs.godotengine.org/en/4.5/classes/class_dictionary.html#class-dictionary-method-duplicate).

  The new `duplicate_deep()` methods for these classes now give users full control over what gets duplicated or not.

  This new feature is the result of an overhaul of the duplication logic for arrays, dictionaries, and resources. For developers, we made sure to keep what was working and consistent intact. If you need more details, feel free to consult our new exhaustive documentation about the duplication specification.[^duplicate-at-ease-with-expected-results]

>   [^duplicate-at-ease-with-expected-results]: See [`Array`](https://docs.godotengine.org/en/latest/classes/class_array.html#class-array-method-duplicate), [`Dictionary`](https://docs.godotengine.org/en/latest/classes/class_dictionary.html#class-dictionary-method-duplicate), and [`Resource`](https://docs.godotengine.org/en/latest/classes/class_resource.html#class-resource-method-duplicate) API documentation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  [^duplicate-at-ease-with-expected-results]: See the [`Array`](https://docs.godotengine.org/en/latest/classes/class_array.html#class-array-method-duplicate), [`Dictionary`](https://docs.godotengine.org/en/latest/classes/class_dictionary.html#class-dictionary-method-duplicate), and [`Resource`](https://docs.godotengine.org/en/latest/classes/class_resource.html#class-resource-method-duplicate) API documentation.
```

title: Duplicate at ease with expected results
blockquote: As deep as you wish
text: |

>   For a long time, even though [`Resource.duplicate()`](https://docs.godotengine.org/en/4.5/classes/class_resource.html#class-resource-method-duplicate) has a `deep` parameter, people realized that setting it to `true` doesn’t always perform in a reliable and predictable way. [Notably](https://github.com/godotengine/godot/issues/74918), it does not duplicate subresources stored inside `Array` or `Dictionary` properties. The same thing was said for [`Array.duplicate()`](https://docs.godotengine.org/en/4.5/classes/class_array.html#class-array-method-duplicate) and [`Dictionary.duplicate()`](https://docs.godotengine.org/en/4.5/classes/class_dictionary.html#class-dictionary-method-duplicate).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  For a long time, even though [`Resource.duplicate()`](https://docs.godotengine.org/en/4.5/classes/class_resource.html#class-resource-method-duplicate) has a `deep` parameter, people realized that setting it to `true` doesn’t always perform in a reliable and predictable way. [Notably](https://github.com/godotengine/godot/issues/74918), it does not duplicate subresources stored inside `Array` or `Dictionary` properties. The same thing was said about [`Array.duplicate()`](https://docs.godotengine.org/en/4.5/classes/class_array.html#class-array-method-duplicate) and [`Dictionary.duplicate()`](https://docs.godotengine.org/en/4.5/classes/class_dictionary.html#class-dictionary-method-duplicate).
```
IMO, or "of"

Reviewer: I suggest
```suggestion
  For a long time, even though [`Resource.duplicate()`](https://docs.godotengine.org/en/4.5/classes/class_resource.html#class-resource-method-duplicate) has a `deep` parameter, people realized that setting it to `true` doesn’t always perform in a reliable and predictable way. [Notably](https://github.com/godotengine/godot/issues/74918), it does not duplicate subresources stored inside `Array` or `Dictionary` properties. The same thing happens with [`Array.duplicate()`](https://docs.godotengine.org/en/4.5/classes/class_array.html#class-array-method-duplicate) and [`Dictionary.duplicate()`](https://docs.godotengine.org/en/4.5/classes/class_dictionary.html#class-dictionary-method-duplicate).
```

>   The new `duplicate_deep()` method for these classes now give users full control over what gets duplicated or not.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  The new `duplicate_deep()` methods of these classes now give users full control over what gets duplicated or not.
```
